https://github.com/lsalzman/iqm


*** Blender export ***

blender-*/iqm_export.py are exporter scripts for their respective versions of Blender, where the highest version script should work with the later versions of Blender. They can either directly export an IQM file (if the output filename has an ".iqm" suffix), or they can export an IQE file (if the output filename has an ".iqe" suffx) for use with the IQM compiler.

The "Meshes" toggle controls whether to export meshes in the IQM.

The "Skeleton" toggle controls whether to export joints and their associated blend weights in the IQM. This should only be disabled for models that are not animated and intended to be static.

The "Bounding boxes" toggle controls whether to generate per-frame bounding boxes for each animation frame. This only works if the IQM contains meshes. This option can take a while, so turning it off while doing test exports of a model and re-enabling it on the final export may be a good idea.

The "Vertex colors" toggle controls whether vertex colors will be exported. At least one mesh must have vertex colors defined to use this option. Starting with the Blender 2.59 exporter, if this vertex color layer is named "alpha" or any name starting with the word "alpha", the colors will be treated as grayscale and source for the alpha channel of the exported vertex colors. Any other vertex color layers with names other than "alpha" will be treated as the RGB channels of the exported vertex colors.

The "Animations" field contains a comma (",") separated list of action names to export. 
The names can also have parameters of the form "name:X:Y:Z:L", where 
    X is the start frame number, 
    Y is the end frame number, 
    Z is the frames per second (floating-point), and 
    L is 0 or 1 to indicate looping. 
Earlier parameters can be left empty as in "idle::::1" to specify only a later parameter, and later parameters can be omitted if unnecessary as in "run:1:25".

The "Materials" option controls how material names are generated. "material+image-ext" combines the name of the material and the name of the UV-map image (without its extension or directory) to generate the material name, "material" uses only the name of the material, and "image" just uses the name of the UV-map image (without its directory).

The "De-rigify" toggle can be used to optimize certain skeletons generated by the rigify script to export only deformation bones.

The "Bone order" option specifies the name of an optional text file (relative to the export path) containing an ordering of bones for export, one bone name per line.